# Evolution of Testing: From Manual to Automated

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide1.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide2.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide3.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide4.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide5.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide6.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide7.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide8.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide9.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide10.jpg)

Thank you, **Supriya**. It's a pleasure to be here today. We have previously
discussed the benefits of automated testing compared to manual testing. But how
can we use automated testing? In this section, we will focus on transitioning to
automation and best practices in the industry.

The process begins with understanding the test requirements, such as which
component to test and what condition qualifies as success. Then, we select the
appropriate tools. For example, a website project might prefer Selenium, while
JUnit is suitable for Java. We should also provide training so team members are
familiar with the tools.

During implementing, we are looking for repetitive tasks because they are ideal
candidates for automation. Automated tests can execute rapidly and can be scaled
to handle a large volume of tests. Automated tests also work well with
continuous integration, which will be discussed extensively later.

Like software development, testing development also relies on collaboration and
quality control. Therefore, we use the same version control systems like Git or
Mercurial. From time to time, we check our automation strategies to align with
evolving technology.

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide11.jpg)

Currently, the best practices in automated testing involve continuous
integration and delivery. On the right side, we can see a common CI/CD workflow.
A team member can make changes to the codebase by submitting a commit. On every
commit, the CI will trigger test scripts. These tests usually catch early issues
before deployment.

When writing test scripts, modularity is important to prepare the tests for
future modification. Divide the tests into smaller, independent modules to
enhance reusability. Keep the source code in version control to track changes.
Or even roll back to the previous state if a commit is beyond repair. Lastly,
documentation is a powerful tool to record test cases and other evaluations.
These resources are indispensable for troubleshooting and to educate team
members.

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide12.jpg)

Unfortunately, utilizing test automation in our project comes with additional
expenses. In this section, we will be discussing the challenges and how to
overcome them.

For starters, there is a learning curve that requires training. Another
challenge is overcomplicated test cases. Therefore, create a maintainable test
execution plan and conduct a regular review. The test cases should adapt to
application changes or even to technology updates.

Develop constant communication with the team to collaborate and avoid
misconceptions. Always look for ways to improve test reliability by addressing
flaky tests. Next, we prioritize strategic testing. For example, some tests
might be overlapping and result in expensive operations. Finally, keep in touch
with the latest automation trends and best practices to stay relevant.

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide13.jpg)

The next slide is about the exciting future trends of automated testing. First,
there is a test shifting strategy. Shifting left rushes the test execution plan
to catch early defects while shifting right delays it to the end for a more
comprehensive result. Recently, there has been a growing movement of artificial
intelligence and machine learning technology. These AI models could be trained
to generate test cases and predict inconsistencies.

DevOps refers to the combination of software development and company operations
to shorten the development life cycle. In the context of automated testing, the
test writers can directly interact with end users in the operation department.
The last two trends are examples of advanced automated testing. There is Robotic
Process Automation, a field that specializes in mimicking human input. At last,
there are complex testing frameworks designed for distributed systems.

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide14.jpg)

This slide is dedicated to artificial intelligence technology in testing. As you
can see in the picture, AI testing services are already available today. They
are still in early development and are subject to change. However, there are
free versions for us to try and explore. Applitools is the most popular AI tool
in testing, in part because of its visualization feature. TestCraft, on the
other hand, is for general-purpose testing but is limited to website
development.

Artificial Intelligence models, when properly trained, can digest large amounts
of data. Compared to human coders, these AI models can generate test scripts in
a shorter time. They can recommend the most efficient test execution plan. Most
importantly, they predict early errors by providing diverse scenarios. Lastly,
AI helps with data analysis and visualization.

My segment ends here. The next slide will be presented by my colleague **Yash**.
I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak.

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide15.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide16.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide17.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide18.jpg)

> ![](https://github.com/hanggrian/IIT-ITM536/raw/assets/assignments/pres/slide19.jpg)
